README.md, before:

# blob-detection
Code for live blob detection from a webcam camera feed in OpenCV.

# Using the code.
This code is written in C++. After cloning/pulling, compile it using:

```
g++ blob.cpp -o BlobTracker `pkg-config --cflags --libs opencv`

```

This should generate an executable named BlobTracker, which you can then run.
Note that this assumes that you have the opencv library already installed.

# Selecting which camera to use

At the beginning of the main function, there is a VideoCapture command that tells OpenCV to start reading data from a camera:

```
VideoCapture cap(1);

```
The number in parentheses tells OpenCV which camera you want to use. If it is set to 0, it will use the default camera (usually your computer's built-in webcam). If set to 1, it will use the next available camera plugged into a USB port.

# Changing the thresholds

As written, the code allows the user to filter possible blob candidates by Threshold (color difference with surroundings), Area (# of pixels filled up), Circularity (self-explanatory), Convexity, and Inertia. These flags can be set to true or false. If true, the values to filter by can be set as well.

# Background thresholding
The code currently takes a reference image at the beginning of its run, and then compares the incoming data stream to that reference image in order to see differences relative to the original "background". It does so by using the formula:

```
Output Image = (Current Image * multiplier)/Reference Image;
```
The multiplier is determined by a trackbar on the window, which can be scaled from 0 to 200.
The reference image can be reset by left-clicking in the window.

# Centroid detection

The code now allows for centroid detection. In each frame, it will average out the x and y locations of the keypoints in order to determine the centroid, and will then plot said centroid as a green filled circle on the image in real time. Test it out using the following images:

![Dark Circle](https://github.com/enginerd887/blob-detection/blob/master/Reverse%20Circle.jpg) ![Reverse Circle](https://github.com/enginerd887/blob-detection/blob/master/hvgqv.png)

Note that you may have to adjust the minimum captured pixel area using the sliders.

The code is currently set up to collect the system centroid for the first 100 frames, and then leaves a reference mark at the location of the centroid when those iterations are complete (shown by a dark green circle). A light green circle shows the current centroid, so the relative motion from the starting configuration can be determined.

Commit message:

Normalized output on background thresholding

README.md, after:

# blob-detection
Code for live blob detection from a webcam camera feed in OpenCV.

# Using the code.
This code is written in C++. After cloning/pulling, compile it using:

```
g++ blob.cpp -o BlobTracker `pkg-config --cflags --libs opencv`

```

This should generate an executable named BlobTracker, which you can then run.
Note that this assumes that you have the opencv library already installed.

# Selecting which camera to use

At the beginning of the main function, there is a VideoCapture command that tells OpenCV to start reading data from a camera:

```
VideoCapture cap(1);

```
The number in parentheses tells OpenCV which camera you want to use. If it is set to 0, it will use the default camera (usually your computer's built-in webcam). If set to 1, it will use the next available camera plugged into a USB port.

# Changing the thresholds

As written, the code allows the user to filter possible blob candidates by Threshold (color difference with surroundings), Area (# of pixels filled up), Circularity (self-explanatory), Convexity, and Inertia. These flags can be set to true or false. If true, the values to filter by can be set as well.

# Background thresholding
The code currently takes a reference image at the beginning of its run, and then compares the incoming data stream to that reference image in order to see differences relative to the original "background". It does so by using the formula:

```
Output Image = (Current Image * multiplier)/Reference Image;
```
The multiplier is determined by a trackbar on the window, which can be scaled from 0 to 200.
The reference image can be reset by left-clicking in the window.

The result is then normalized using:

```
Find min of result
Find max of result
Normalized Data = ((Old Data - min)/(max-min))*255;
```

# Centroid detection

The code now allows for centroid detection. In each frame, it will average out the x and y locations of the keypoints in order to determine the centroid, and will then plot said centroid as a green filled circle on the image in real time. Test it out using the following images:

![Dark Circle](https://github.com/enginerd887/blob-detection/blob/master/Reverse%20Circle.jpg) ![Reverse Circle](https://github.com/enginerd887/blob-detection/blob/master/hvgqv.png)

Note that you may have to adjust the minimum captured pixel area using the sliders.

The code is currently set up to collect the system centroid for the first 100 frames, and then leaves a reference mark at the location of the centroid when those iterations are complete (shown by a dark green circle). A light green circle shows the current centroid, so the relative motion from the starting configuration can be determined.
